So as we mentioned before,
Spring is moving to replace the RestTemplate with the WebClient.
Unlike in the token relay example where the RestTemplate had to simply add the
access token to the header for the client credentials flow,
the RestTemplate also needs to request the access token from
the authorization server using the client credentials grant
before it can make the request.
Now there is no support for that in Spring 5 as they are focusing on WebClient.
So we have to use an older version of the Spring OAuth2 project,
which has an OAuth2 RestTemplate implementation,
which can handle this for us,
meaning we have to rewrite our portfolio services
security using the legacy OAuth2 project.
In our project dependencies,
we include the spring-boot-starter-security dependency and the following
spring-security-oauth2- autoconfigure dependency to port it into Spring Boot 2.1
.6 as Spring Boot 2 doesn't support it out of the box.
The version should be the same as the Spring Boot project.
Next, we add our keyset URI as this IA resource server,
and it needs a way to validate the token signature.
We need to now create a configuration class and use the
Configuration and EnableResourceServer annotation.
We then return a bean of type ClientCredentialsResourceDetails where we
put in our client details like the ID and secret,
the grant type of client credentials and the access token URI,
basically the endpoint where the RestTemplate can request
the access token using the client-id and secret via the
client credentials grant type.
Then when we create an instance of the RestTemplate,
we actually return an instance of the OAuth2RestTemplate with
the ClientCredentialsResourceDetails object.
We can then wire in the RestTemplate into our pricing service
class and call the pricing microservice.
The OAuth2RestTemplate will take care of the rest.
It will get the access token from the token endpoint we
configured and add it to the request header.
Easy peasy.
One minor change is required.
The legacy version of Spring OAuth will expect a
claim of user_name in the token,
which it will then map to the username in the authenticated principal.
So in Keycloak, we need a mapper that maps the preferred username to user_name. We can use the mapper type User Attribute to achieve that.